Usage-Running the Program:  To run program make sure that Love, the 2d game engine is dowloaded on your computer.  Then from the Terminal window, navigate to the directory that contains the folder with the Project, named AxisAndAllies, and run (love AxisAndAllies).  If this doesnt work, find where love is installed in your program, then run (path/love AxisAndAllies).  Make sure no files are missing from the folder.  The command should be run from the directory containing the folder and NOT from within the folder.

Background:  This game is based on the board game Axis and Allies: 1942.  The game is played almost identically except for the absence of sea units, and special 'abilities' of troops.  The original instructions for the boardgame are located in a pdf labeled in the folder, but they are long.  it will be easier to play if you follow the instructions here and the instrucitons that are on screen in the game. 

There are two teams the Axis: Germany and Japan, and the Allies: U.S. Russia and Britain

Playing - Controls and Game Play
Start Page:  Once you run the game, you should see a map and other information.  There are 5 countries, 2 axis, and 3 allies.  To win either the axis or the allies should take control of the world.  In the top left are IPC's, the game's currency.  Each coutnry gets more at the end of the turn and how much each country gets is decided by the number of territories it controls.  Clicking a red dot will select a territory.  (Note, on the left and right edges the clicking can become finicky so if a click doesnt work try clicking around the red dot.)  Once a territory is selected you will see who controls it, the IPC value of the territory, the name, and what troops are inside.  This information shows up on the right of the screen.  In the top right you will see: press enter to begin.

--The game is played in turns, and each turn has phases.  This will walk through each phase.
AFter pressing Enter and beginning the game.
To the left of the title, you can see whose turn it is.

Phase 1 - Purchasing units:  You can select units to purchase with the keys 1-6.  The number of units you have selected are in the top right of the screen.  The stats of each unit are also shown.  You place these units at the end of your turn.  You use Ipc's to buy units so make sure you ahve enough IPCs.  If you need to reset the counter press r.  These instructions and more will appear on the top and top right of the game screen.  Press C to confirm your purchase.  This will not work if you have gone over your ipc limit, you will need to reset your values and try again.

Phase 2 - Combat Move:  In this phase you move all the units that you want to engange in battles from friendly territories to enemy territory.  First Select the friendly territory you want to move units from.  then in the same way as the previous phase, use keys 1-6 to select units.  (note, you cannot attack with AAA and if you attempt to do so you will not be able to move.  You will need to press r to reset and try again.)  Then click m and select your target enemy territory. (Clicking M toggles between selecting a "selected territory" and selecting a "target territory" when you click a dot with the mouse.) The selected territory information will not change, but the target territory will show in the right corner.  Press N to confirm the move of troops. (note you can only move into enemy territory in this phase, if you attempt to mvoe into a friendly territory, you will not be able to) now if you select the target territory you should see that your troops have been moved.  Repeat this as many times as needed( Note you can attack as many territories as you want at once.  However, each unit can move only once.)  When you are finished press F.  R will reset your selected troops, but will not undo a move.  Simplified insturctions are provided at the top of the game.

Phase 3- Combat:  If you made no combat moves, this phase will be skipped since there are no battels to run.  The order that the battles are conducted in is random.  At the top you see which territories battle is currently being decided.  At the bottom you see the number of troops of each country.  In the middle you see the stats of each troop.  You also see How many rolls of the dice each side gets on the edges.  For example 4 for 3 means that you are rolling 4 dice, for each dice that gets a 3 or less, you score a hit.  Pressing R will roll the dice for each side.  You will then see the number of hits that each side suffered.  Each side gets to choose which units get hit.  Click on the image of a unit to mark it as a hit.  The unit will be destroyed.  Do this until each side has a hit value of 0.  (Note if there are more hits than units, once you select all the units the hits will automatically go to 0)  Once both sides have distributed all the hits, you roll again.  This process continues until one side has no units remaing. This means the battle is over.  Press C to continue to the next battle. If all battles are over, pressing c will conitnue to the next phase.

Phase 4 - Redeployment: Same as phase 2, except now you can only move friendly troops to friendly territories.  Press Z to continue.

Phase 5- Placement:  In this phase you place the units that purchased at the beginning of the turn.  The total nubmer of units you have remaining to place is shown int he top right next to their icons.  Once again select units with 1-6.  The number of units selected is shown at the top of the page.  Selecte a friendly territory.  Then press p to place the units.  (Note you can only place units in a friendly territory.)  When you are finished Press D and pass to the next player.  You will receive Ipc's = to the value of your IPC/turn, which is decided by how many territories you control (This means winning territories allows you to earn more IPC's per turn)

This completes one turn and the cycle repeats for the next turn.

The turn order is : Russia, Germany, Britain, Japan, U.S.